Individual pages as Photoshop save files
========================================

On this page you will find links to Photoshop save files for all parts
of the pop-up book.  These allow you to modify and improve the parts
of the books or to adapt the book for another synchrotron.

See
[the PDF files page](https://github.com/bruceravel/synchrotron_pop_up_book/blob/master/pages.md)
for printable files.

## Individual pages

### Front and Back Cover

These are the front and back covers of the book.  These are **printed
one-sided** and can be on **normal** paper.

 * [Front cover](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Front+Cover.psd) (26.2 MB)
 * [Back cover](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Back+Cover.psd) (24.7 MB)

### Pages

These are the four interior pages.  They are **printed one-sided** and
should be on **tear-resistant** paper.

 * [Page 1](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Page+1.psd) (35.5 MB)
 * [Page 2](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Page+2.psd) (42 MB)
 * [Page 3](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Page+3.psd) (37 MB)
 * [Page 4](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Page+4.psd) (39.2 MB)

### Ring Building

These four pages constitute the ring building.  These are to be
**printed two-sided** and should be printed on **tear-resistant**
paper.

 * [Inner wall](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Inner+Wall.psd) (21.6 MB)
 * [Inner wall, interior](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Inner+Wall+Interior.psd) (11.3 MB)
 * [Outer wall](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Outer+Wall.psd) (23.6 MB)
 * [Outer wall, interior](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Outer+wall+interior.psd) (12.7 MB)


### Shaping Magnet Booklet

These pages are assembled into the shaping magnets booklet, which is
attached to page 2.  The text pages are to be **printed two-sided**
and all and on **tear-resistant** paper.

 * [Text and cover](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Shaping+Magnet+Text.psd) (19.9 MB)
 * [Text, back side](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Shaping+Magnet+Text+B.psd) (7.6 MB)
 * [Magnets](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Shaping+Magnets.psd) (8.9 MB)

### Bend magnet

This page contains the parts of the bend magent spinner, which is
attached to page 1.  (One of the experiment components for the XAFS
pouch is also printed on this page.)  This is **printed one-sided**
and should be on **tear-resistant** paper.

 * [Spinner](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Spinner+Print.psd) (15.5 MB)

### One-sided Experiment Components

These are cut, then assembled into components for the equipment
pouches.  These are **printed one-sided** and should be on
**tear-resistant** paper.

 * [Components](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Experiment+ComponentsRM.psd) (20.9 MB)

### Two-sided Experiment Components

These are cut, then assembled into components for the equipment
pouches.  These are **printed two-sided** and should be on
**tear-resistant** paper.

 * [Fronts](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Two-sided+Experiment+Components+Front.psd) (30.9 MB)
 * [Backs](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Two-sided+Experiment+Components+Back.psd) (22.5 MB)


### Lab Book

These contain text and backing images for the lab book.  After
cutting, these are assembled into a small book that is then attached
to page 4.  These are to be **printed two-sided** and should be
printed on **tear-resistant** paper.

 * [Lab book, front sides](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Lab+Book+Front.psd) (16 MB)
 * [Lab book, back sides](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Lab+Book+Back.psd) (11.6 MB)

### Pouches

These are folded to make the three pouches containing end-station
instruments, then attached to page 3.  They should be **printed
one-sided** and on **tear-resistant** paper.

 * [Imaging pouch](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Imaging+pouch.psd) (7 MB)
 * [MX](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/MX+pouch.psd) (5.9 MB)
 * [XAFS](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/XAFS+pouch.psd) (20.3 MB)

### Inserts

These contain two copies each of the inserts for each experimental
pouch.  They show photographs of actual end stations and of the actual
instrumentation represented by the papercraft versions.  These are to
be **printed two-sided** and can be printed on **normal** paper.

 * [Insert fronts](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Inserts+Front.psd) (55 MB)
 * [Insert backs](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Inserts+Back.psd) (18 MB)

### Acetate page

This file is to be printed on a **sheet of clear acetate**.  It
contains the slider for the undulator and the overlays for the imaging
experiment.  This is **printed one-sided**.

 * [Acetate page](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/Acetate.psd) (7.3 MB)


## Bundled pages

Here is links which allow you to download all of the pages in one
click.  This zip file contains each individual page linked above.

 * [Zip file](https://s3.amazonaws.com/SynchrotronPopUpBook/allpages_photoshop.zip) (319 MB)
