Synchrotron Pop-Up Book
=======================

Some notes on the format of this document:

 * The script is divided into 4 sections, one each for the front and
   back covers and one for each of the two spreads
 * Subsections describe specific pop-up components
 * [Text in brackets] indicates comments to the reader of this file
 * {Text in braces} indicates instructions about the disposition of text
 * All other text is the actual content of the book.

The finished version of this script will have no [bracketed text], but
will have extensive {braced text}.

Typography:

 * use colored text and/or fonts to indicate certain concepts
   * text indicating a successful search term on Wikipedia for more
     information
   * text indicates a unit of measurement, which is explained on the
     back cover
   * NSLS-II beamline acronyms


Front page
----------

[Title -- we need a title]

 * **Designed by:** Linnea Russell
 * **Written by:** Scott Calvin and Bruce Ravel
 * **Produced by:** The Photon Sciences Users' Executive Committee at
   Brookhaven National Laboratory


First spread: Storage ring
--------------------------


## Overview

{Upper left corner}

 * Facility operates 24/7
 * when fully built out, facility will support around 60 beamlines
   operating simultaneously
 * will support over 4000 visitors each year from around the USA and
   the world, and from academia, government, and industry
 * will support experiments in chemistry and energy science, life
   science, materials science, earth and environmental science --
   virtually every issue of societal and economic interest with a
   scientific component will be explored at NSLS-II

## Electron path

{This text is intended to follow a path on the page.  The infield of
the ring will depict, slightly above scale, the linac and booster
ring.  The path of text will wend its way down the linac, all the way
around the booster, down the injection line, then around the storage
ring.}

Electrons are produced in bunches by striking a diamond anode with a
powerful laser.  The electron bunches gain energy as they travel down
the linear accelerator and are injected into the booster ring.  In the
booster the bunches are raised in energy to 3 GeV and injected into
the storage ring. Once in the ring, the current is maintained for
days.  Additional electrons are injected into the ring once per minute
to maintain the stored current at the level of 500 mA.

## Bend magnet

The storage ring is actually a 30-sided polygon.  Bend magnets at each
corner steer the electron beam between straight sections *and*
generate X-ray beams for experiments.  *Something something about
charged particles and magnets making light.*

## Undulator

An undulator is an array of dozens of powerful magnets.  Each pair of
magnets generates X-rays by *more of that something something*.  The
careful arrangement of the magnets allows for constructive
interference between the light from each pair, resulting in a massive
amplification of the intensity at specific energies.  The energy
response of the undulator is tuned by adjusting the size of the gap
between the magnet arrays.

[Other properties of the undulator: large coherence fraction , small
source size, small divergence, high brightness, high brilliance.  All
important stuff, but perhaps beyond the scope of the book.]

## Shaping magnets

[I need to do some research before writing this bit of text.]

Second spread: Beamline
-----------------------


## First optical enclosure

This small room contains the instrumentation used to process the white
light generated by the storage ring so that it can be used for the
particular experiment at a beamline.  While each kind of experiment
has special requirements and may have a different compliment of
optics, the generic FOE shown here explains the function of the most
common optical devices.  The *collimating mirror* removes divergence
from the beam such that all rays exiting the mirror are parallel.  The
*monochromator* filters the light, allowing only the energy required
for the experiment to continue down the beam path.  The *focusing
mirror* focuses the X-ray beam onto a small spot in the experimental
end station.

[White light -- and other terms -- too jargony!]

## Monochromator

The monochromator filters the light generated by the source, selecting
just the energy required by the experiment.  For hard X-ray beamlines,
energy selection is typically made using very pure silicon crystals.
*Something about diffraction and wavelength.* By changing the angle of
incidence of the incoming X-ray beam, different energies are selected
for the experiment. The second crystal redirects the beam towards the
end station.  

[Need to have already explained that bends and undulators are examples 
of sources.]

[Some other things that may be worth mentioning: (1) soft X-ray
beamlines use grating (2) a scattering beamlines may have fixed a mono
(3) other mono crystal materials, Ge, YB66, Beryl, InSb, etc]

## End station

The end station is where the measurement occurs.  The instrumentation
in an end station is highly variable and specialized for particular
measurements.  The enclosure is shielded to protect the scientist from
the X-rays within.  An elaborate interlock system is used to secure
the enclosure and make the work area safe before the X-ray shutter can
be opened.

Build one of the experiments from the pouches above!  Each color coded
set of equipment is used to make one of the measurements shown in the
*log book*.

## Instrumentation pouches

{Above the stack of pouches, in bold text:}

Instrumentation pouches

{Each pouch should be colored with the color assigned to its
experiment.  This color coding connects the pouch to the individual
instruments and to the pages of the data booklet.  Each item in the
following list is printed on its colored pouch.}

[Need to settle on the color coding.]

 * Macromolecular Crystallography (MX)
 * Fluorescence Imaging
 * X-ray Absorption Fine Structure Spectroscopy (XAFS)

&lbrack;Should we fret about color-blind readers?  Perhaps the instruments
and data booklet pages can also be labeled with symbols, for example
Mercury, Earth, and Saturn, from the
[astronomical symbols](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astronomical_symbols).&rbrack;

## Data booklet cover

{Print the cover of the booklet to look like an experimental log book}

{Big, bold text}
**Log book**

{smaller text} 
This book contains results of three synchrotron experiments.
Assemble the experiment using the contents of the corresponding
*instrumentation pouch* then open this book to the corresponding page
to read about the measurement and its results.

## Experiments

[Each experiment requires text for the instrumentation objects and for
the presentation of results]

[In this section, *italics* indicate a components from the
corresponding pouch.]

### Macromolecular crystallography

###### Instrumentation

A tiny crystal of a protein or other large molecule is mounted at the
center of the *goniometer*, which rotates the sample in front of the
X-ray beam.  The X-rays scatter from the sample to spots on the
*detector*.  By tracking the pattern of spots as the sample rotates, the
atomic structure of the molecule can be determined.  A *cryostream*
shoots extremely cold gas at the sample.  These very cold temperatures
help minimize damage from the intense X-ray beam.

Several beamlines at NSLS-II will perform these measurements,
including AMX, FMX, NYX, and SM3.

###### Experiment

An ion channel is a passage through a cell wall that allows only one
kind of atom to pass, thus maintaining a balance of electrolytes
within the cell.  The potassium ion channel is composed of four copies
of a protein linked in a ring.  When a potassium ion enters the pore
at one end of the channel, the proteins changes shape in a manner
resembling the action of the paper model.  This shape change
transports the ion to the other side of the cell wall.  Work performed
at NSLS on this protein lead to the 2003 Nobel Prize in chemistry.
With a deep understanding of the behavior of ion channels like this
one, new prospects emerge for the development of new pharmaceuticals.

### Fluorescence imaging

###### Instrumentation

The X-rays entering the end station are focused to a very small spot
size by Kirkpatrick-Baez mirrors.  These are plates of glass polished
very smooth and bent along their length.  *Something something
glancing incident* which focuses t he X-ray beam to a 10 um spot.

The HXN beamline at NSLS-II will perform this experiment with a 10 nm
spot, 1000 times smaller than the experiment shown here!  Other
imaging beamlines include SRX, XFM, and FXI.

A flat sample is mounted at the focal spot of the KB mirrors.  The
incidence X-rays interact with the sample, emitting secondary X-rays
at energies characteristic of each element contained in the sample.
The *detector* is capable of resolving X-rays of different energies.
In this way, the amounts of different elements can be quantified.  By
miving the sample back and forth in the beam, the distribution of
elements can measured and turned into an image.

###### Experiment

The plant *Alyssum murale* is a hyperaccumulator for the toxic metal
cobalt, meaning that it can draw Co out of the soil and store it
within its leaf.  This excess of toxic Co is stored at the end of the
leaf, far away from most of the plant tissue.  Additionally, this
plant grows star-shaped structures made from calcium silicate.  These
hard, mineral-like structures are a survival strategy, preventing
animals from eating the leafs.

By measuring the signals from the Co and Ca atoms as the leaf is moved
beneath the X-ray beam, the distribution of those atoms is converted
to a colored map.  By overlapping the distributions of the different
metals, an image of the leaf structure and composition is made.


### X-rays Absorption Spectroscopy

###### Instrumentation

Blah blah

Beamlines for spectroscopy experiments at NSLS-II include ISS, QAS,
TEX, BMM, SST, and SM3.

###### Experiment

[Let Scott take the first whack here.]

Back page
---------

## Blurb

{Top of page, fairly big font}

[Catchy copy to draw the reader to the book]

## Units

{boxed text (or similar) with color/font link to units in text}

 * 3 GeV = 3 giga (million) electron volts, eV is a unit of electron
   energy
 * 500 mA = 500 milliamperes, Ampere is a unit of electrical current
 * 10 um = 10 micrometers, one tenth the width of a human hair
 * 10 nm = 10 nanometers, one tenth the size of a typical virus, half
   the size of the smallest feature in a microprocessor [two
   options, choose one]

## Acknowledgments

 * Display CC image and brief CC statement
 * Dr. Ryan Tappero for leaf data
 * Dr. Annie Heroux for MX experiment

## More information

 * Words in *colored/font text* can be used as search terms to find
   more information at http://Wikipedia.com
   
 * NSLS-II homepage: http://www.bnl.gov/ps/ where information can be
   found about all NSLS-II beamlines, including the ones mentioned in
   this book. [Use colored acronym text/font to bring the reader here.]

