Synchrotron Pop-Up Book
=======================

Some notes on the format of this document:

 * The script is divided into 4 sections, one each for the front and
   back covers and one for each of the two spreads
 * Subsections describe specific pop-up components
 * [Text in brackets] indicates comments to the reader of this file
 * Indented (`fixed-width`) text indicates instructions about the
   disposition of text
 * (WW Text in parens) with the "WW" marker indicates a term that can
   be searched for successfully on Wikipedia.  This text is blue.
 * (UU Text in parens) with the "UU" marker indicates a unit of
   measure, which will be explained on the back cover.  This text is
   red.
 * (BL Text in parens) with the "BL" marker indicates a beamline
   acronym.  There will be links to further information on the bank
   cover.  This text is green.
 * **Bold text** in a description usually refers to a nearby
   papercraft element.
 * All other text is the actual content of the book.

The finished version of this script will likely have no
[bracketed text], but will have extensive {braced text}.

# Front page

Title: National Synchrotron Light Source II

Subtitle: Long Island's state-of-the-art X-ray microscope

 * **Design and Artwork by:** Linnea Russell
 * **Concept and Text by:** Scott Calvin and Bruce Ravel
 * **Produced by:** The Photon Sciences Users' Executive Committee at
   Brookhaven National Laboratory


# First spread: Storage ring

		The background image is a directly overhead view of NSLS-II.  Along
		with the text and papercraft elements described below, this image will
		be decorated.

		The roof of the synchrotron will be decorated with a simple
		representation of the layout of beamlines on  the floor, something
		like 
		http://www.flickr.com/photos/brookhavenlab/8576528221/in/set-72157615585907461

		The five Lab-Office Buildings have exterior color markings around the
		doors and along the rooflines.  Below is a table of their approximate
		colors.  The LOBs in the image will be decorated accordingly.

		LOB | degrees | color  | R   | G   | B   | hex    |
		--- | ------- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | ------ |
		1   | 0       | red    | 163 | 50  | 61  | A3323D |
		2   | 72      | blue   | 44  | 85  | 130 | 2C5582 |
		3   | 144     | yellow | 212 | 180 | 111 | D4B46F |
		4   | 216     | green  | 93  | 106 | 97  | 5D6A61 |
		5   | 288     | orange | 183 | 99  | 63  | B7633F |


## Overview

        Upper left corner

The National Synchrotron Light Source II (**NSLS-II**) will:

 * host experiments in chemistry and energy science, life science,
   materials science, earth and environmental science, cultural
   studies -- virtually every scientific and technological issue of
   societal and economic interest will be impacted by NSLS-II
 * support more than 50 experiments simultaneously, each on its own
   (WW beamline), with new experiments starting every day as previous
   ones are completed
 * operate 24/7
 * serve over 4000 visitors each year from around the USA and
   the world, hailing from academia, government, and industry

## Electron path

		This text is intended to follow a path on the page.  The infield of
		the ring will depict, slightly above scale, the linac and booster
		ring.  The path of text will wend its way down the linac, all the way
		around the booster, down the injection line, then around the storage
		ring.

A laser strikes a diamond (WW anode) to produce a group of (WW
electrons) called a "bunch."

The (WW linear accelerator) increases their energy. 

In the booster ring, the energy of the bunches is increased to
(UU 3 GeV).

Every minute, additional electrons are injected in order to maintain
the ring current at (UU 500 mA), allowing continuous operation for
days.  The stored electrons circle the (WW storage ring), traveling at
a speed very close to the speed of light.  As the electrons pass
through bend magents and undulators, X-rays are created and delivered
simultaneously to all the beamlines at NSLS-II.

## Bend magnet

		The papercraft depiction of a bend magnet is in the lower left
		corner.  A photo of a bend magnet will be printed near the
		papercraft.

The storage ring is actually a 30-sided polygon. **Bend magnets** at
each corner steer the electron beam between straight
sections. Whenever high-speed electrons (green) are deflected, they
generate X-ray beams (purple) which in the NSLS-II are used for
experiments.

This simplified depiction shows a ring made with three bend magnets --
a fourth is implied where your hand turns the wheel.

## Undulator

		The papercraft depiction of an undulator is in the lower right
		corner.  A photo of an undulator will be printed near the
		papercraft.

An **undulator** is an array of dozens of powerful magnets (shown in
red and blue).  Each pair of magnets generates X-rays by deflecting
electrons.  The magnets are carefully arranged so that each pair of
magnets generates X-rays that reinforce the X-rays from previous
pairs, resulting in a massive amplification of the intensity at
specific energies.  The energy of the X-rays can be chosen by
adjusting the size of the gap between the magnet arrays, much like
tuning a radio to select a particular station.  Undulators are to bend
magnets as lasers are to flashlights.

Pull the tab below to see an undulator cause an electron bunch (green)
to generate X-rays (purple).

## Shaping magnets

		A minibook -- i.e. a two spread book with a stiff top cover and
		bound with tape -- is in the upper right corner.  Opening the
		minibook to its first spread displays the papercraft of a
		quadrupole magnet.  Opening the second spread displays the
		papercraft of the sextupole magnet.

As the electron bunches travel around the storage ring, the negatively
charged particles repel one another, increasing the size of each
bunch.  To maintain the small bunches required for proper operations
of the undulators, arrays of shaping magnets are placed in many places
around the ring.  

A (WW quadrupole magnet) consists of four magnets arranged in a ring.
The electron bunches travel through the center of this array of
magnets.  The north and south poles of the four magnets are positioned
so that each electron bunch is compressed as it travels through the
quadrupole. 

A quadrupole magnet by itself has a problem.  The electrons in a bunch
are not all of the same energy.  Electrons with slightly more energy
interact with the quadrupole differently than the ones that have
slightly less energy.  This has the effect of stretching the length of
the bunch in the direction of travel, which is bad for the operation
of the undulators.

To correct this problem, every quadrupole is paired with a (WW
sextupole magnet).  A sextupole is an arrangement of six magnets in a
ring.  Again, the bunches travel through the center of the array.
This kind of magnet serves to correct the problem introduced by the
quadrupole magnet.  Together these two magnets, repeated dozens of
times around the ring, serve to maintain the ultra small bunch sizes
needed to make NSLS-II a world-leading synchrotron facility.


		This photo from the BNL Flickr set will be printed near the
		shaping magnets.

		http://www.flickr.com/photos/brookhavenlab/5589166111/sizes/l/


# Second spread: Beamline

## First optical enclosure (FOE)

		The papercraft is a box that unfolds and stands upright.  "First
		optical encolsure" is printed on the side.  A cartoon of the
		mirrors and mono is printed on the top of the box.

This small room contains the instrumentation used to process the
X-rays generated by the (WW storage ring) so that they can be used for
a particular experiment at a (WW beamline).  Each kind of experiment
has special requirements.  The **FOE** shown here is typical, although
the various kinds of experiments result in a variety of designs.

The **collimating mirror** removes divergence from the beam such that
all rays exiting that mirror are parallel.  The **monochromator**
filters the light, allowing only the energy required for the
experiment to continue down the beam path.  The **focusing mirror**
focuses the X-ray beam onto a small spot in the **end station**.
That small spot is where the sample goes!

## Monochromator

        The papercraft monochromator is in the lower right corner.
        The front of the mono is a flap, with this text printed on it.

List here for more information about the monochromator

        Underneath the flap is the papercraft mono.  On the back side
        of the flap is the following text.

The **monochromator** filters the light generated by the bend
magnet or undulator, selecting just the energy required by the
experiment.  For experiments requiring high-energy X-rays, energy
selection is typically made using very pure silicon crystals, although
other materials may also be used.  For lower energy X-rays, a
(WW diffraction grating) is used instead of a crystal.

Both crystals and gratings work like a prism, separating a "white"
beam of X-rays in to X-rays of different energies much like how a
prism separates the colors of visible light. By choosing the
orientation of the crystal or grating, a specific energy of X-ray can
be made to hit the second crystal. The second crystal redirects the
X-rays of the chosen energy towards the end station. The orientation
of the crystal or grating is computer-controlled, allowing different
energies to be chosen during an experiment.

## End station

		The end station occupies most of the lower half of the left page.
		The papercraft component of the end station is two walls that
		unfold to stand upright.  The walls are printed with photos of
		interior and exterior end station walls from NSLS-II.

		A photo of an optical table is printed on the "floor" of the end
		station.  This is the surface on which the reader will "build"
		experiments.

The end station is where the measurement occurs.  The instrumentation
in an end station is specialized for particular kinds of measurements.
It is shielded to protect researchers from the X-rays within.  An
elaborate interlock system is used to close the end station and make
the work area safe before the X-ray shutter can be opened.

Build one of the experiments from the pouches above!  Each color coded
set of equipment is used to make one of the measurements shown in the
**log book**.

## Instrumentation pouches

        Above the set of pouches, in bold text:

**Instrumentation pouches**

		Each pouch should be colored with the color assigned to its
		experiment.  This color coding connects the pouch to the individual
		instruments and to the pages of the data booklet.  Each item in the
		following list is printed on its colored pouch.

 * Macromolecular Crystallography (MX) (Color: maroon)
 * Fluorescence Imaging (Color: green)
 * X-ray Absorption Fine Structure Spectroscopy (XAFS) (Color: blue)

## Data booklet cover

		Lower left corner of the right page

		Print the cover of the booklet to look like an experimental log
		book.

		This will be a minibook in the same sense as the shaping magnets
		booklet on the previous spread.  It will have a cardboard outer
		cover and be bound by tape.

		Big, bold text

**Log book**

        smaller text

This book contains results of three synchrotron experiments.  Assemble
the experiment using the contents of the corresponding
**instrumentation pouch** then open this book to the corresponding
page to read about the measurement and its results.

        The pages will be color coded to correspond to the experiments

## Experiments

        Each experiment requires text for the instrumentation objects and
        for the presentation of results in the log book

### Macromolecular crystallography

#### Instrumentation

        Printed on the MX pouch

A tiny crystal of a protein or other large molecule is mounted at the
center of the **goniometer**, which rotates the sample in front of the
X-ray beam.  The X-rays scatter from the sample to create a pattern of
spots on the **detector**.  By tracking the pattern as the sample
rotates, the atomic structure of the molecule can be determined.  A
*cryostream* shoots extremely cold gas at the sample, minimizing
damage from the intense X-ray beam.

Several beamlines at NSLS-II will perform this kind of measurement,
including (BL AMX), (BL FMX), (BL NYX), and (BL SM3).

#### Experiment

        printed in the Log Book near the data

An ion channel is a passage through a cell wall that allows only one
kind of atom to pass, thus maintaining a balance of electrolytes
within the cell.  The potassium ion channel is composed of four copies
of a protein linked in a ring.  When a potassium ion enters the pore
at one end of the channel, the proteins changes shape in a manner
resembling the action of the paper model shown on the next page.  This
shape change transports the ion to the other side of the cell wall.

Work performed at NSLS (the predecessor to NSLS-II) on this protein
lead to the 2003 Nobel Prize in chemistry.  A deep understanding of
the behavior of ion channels like this one opens new prospects for the
development of novel pharmaceuticals.

### Fluorescence imaging

#### Instrumentation

        printed on the Instrumentation pouch (note the "u" in the units
        indicates micrometers)

The X-rays entering the end station are focused to a very small spot
size by **Kirkpatrick-Baez (KB) mirrors**.  These are plates of glass
polished very smooth and bent along their length.  *Something
something glancing incident* which focuses the X-ray beam to a (UU 10
um) spot.

At NSLS-II, the HXN beamline will have imaging capability. The HXN
beamline will perform this kind of experiment with a 10 UUnm spot, a
thousand times smaller than the NSLS experiment shown in the Log Book!
Other imaging beamlines at NSLS-II include SRX, XFM, and FXI 

A flat sample is mounted at the focal spot of the KB mirrors.  The
incident X-rays interact with the sample, emitting secondary X-rays at
energies characteristic of each element contained in the sample.  The
**detector** is capable of detecting X-rays of selected energies,
corresponding to particular elements.  In this way, the amounts of
different elements can be quantified.  By moving the sample back and
forth in the beam, the distribution of elements can measured and
turned into an image.

#### Experiment

        printed in the Log Book near the data

The plant *Alyssum murale* is a hyperaccumulator for the toxic metal
cobalt--it can draw cobalt out of the soil and store it
within its leaf.  This excess of toxic cobalt is stored at the end of the
leaf, far away from most of the plant tissue.  Additionally, this
plant grows star-shaped structures made from calcium silicate.  These
hard, mineral-like structures are a survival strategy, preventing
animals from eating the leafs.

By measuring the signals from the cobalt and calcium atoms as the leaf is moved
under the X-ray beam, the distribution of those atoms is converted
to a colored map.  By overlapping the distributions of the different
metals, an image of the leaf structure and composition is made.


### X-ray Absorption Fine-Structure (XAFS) Spectroscopy

#### Instrumentation

        printed on the Instrumentation pouch

In this kind of experiment, the monochromator is used to select a
series of closely spaced energies. The intensity of the resulting
x-ray beam is measured both before (**incident detector**) and after
(**transmitted detector**) the beam passes through the sample. The way
in which the absorption depends on the energy of the x-rays can be
used to provide information about the atomic-level structure of the
sample. While often less precise than MX, XAFS is effective on a wider
variety of materials, including those that are not crystalline.

Beamlines for spectroscopy experiments at NSLS-II include (BL ISS),
(BL QAS), (BL TES), (BL BMM), (BL SST), and (BL SM3).

#### Experiment

        letting Scott take the first stab at this...

# Back page


## Blurb

        Top of page, fairly big font

[Catchy copy to draw the reader to the book]

## Biographies

        Photos of Linnea, Scott, and Bruce with short bios

Linnea Russell is a student at Sarah Lawrence College.  She hopes to
pursue a career in medical illustration.

Scott Calvin is a professor of physics at Sarah Lawrence College where
he teaches classes like "Steampunk Physics" and "Rocket Science".

Bruce Ravel is a physicist at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, which is building three beamlines at NSLS-II.  He will
manage the BMM beamline for XAFS and X-ray diffraction.

## Units

        boxed text (or similar) with color/font link to units in text

 * 3 GeV = 3 giga (million) electron volts, eV is a unit of electron
   energy. The electrons in an ordinary spark from static electricity
   in your home have energies around 0.00001 GeV
 * 500 mA = 500 milliamperes, Ampere is a unit of electrical
   current. 500 mA is typical of the current through a household light
   bulb.
 * 10 um = 10 micrometers, one tenth the width of a human hair
 * 10 nm = 10 nanometers, one tenth the size of a typical virus

## Acknowledgments

        boxed text

 * Dr. Ryan Tappero for measuring a flourescence image of an *Alyssum
   murale* leaf
 * Dr. Annie Heroux for graciously donating raw MX data
 * The structure of the KcsA K+ channel is from the RSCB Protein Data
   Bank: doi:10.2210/pdb1k4c/pdb
 * The XAFS results are from *Scientific Reports* 3, 1050 (2012). doi:
   10.1038/srep01050
 * Several photos (which will be identified unambiguously) are from
   the BNL flickr site

## More information

        boxed text

 * NSLS-II homepage: Go to http://www.bnl.gov/ps/ to find out about
   all NSLS-II beamlines, including the ones (BL mentioned) in this
   book.

 * Words in (WW colored text) can be used as search terms to find
   more information at http://Wikipedia.com
   
